# List of Publications and Articles

### Detection and Classification of Brain tumors Using Deep Convolutional Neural Networks
  Abnormal development of tissues in the body as a result of swelling and morbid enlargement is known as a tumor. They are mainly classified as Benign and Malignant. Tumour in the brain is fatal as it may be cancerous, so it can feed on healthy cells nearby and keep increasing in size. This may affect the soft tissues, nerve cells, and small blood vessels in the brain. Hence there is a need to detect and classify them during the early stages with utmost precision. There are different sizes and locations of brain tumors which makes it difficult to understand their nature. The process of detection and classification of brain tumors can prove to be an onerous task even with advanced MRI (Magnetic Resonance Imaging) techniques due to the similarities between the healthy cells nearby and the tumor. In this paper, we have used Keras and Tensorflow to implement state-of-the-art Convolutional Neural Network (CNN) architectures, like EfficientNetB0, ResNet50, Xception, MobileNetV2, and VGG16, using Transfer Learning to detect and classify three types of brain tumors namely - Glioma, Meningioma, and Pituitary. The dataset we used consisted of 3264 2-D magnetic resonance images and 4 classes. Due to the small size of the dataset, various data augmentation techniques were used to increase the size of the dataset. Our proposed methodology not only consists of data augmentation, but also various image denoising techniques, skull stripping, cropping, and bias correction. In our proposed work EfficientNetB0 architecture performed the best giving an accuracy of 97.61%. The aim of this paper is to differentiate between normal and abnormal pixels and also classify them with better accuracy.
  * Published abstract in the proceedings of the  ‘International Conference on Machine Learning, Big Data Management, Cloud and Computing (ICMBDC) 2022’: [LINK](https://digitalxplore.org/proceeding.php?pid=1210)
  * Pre-print is available on arXiv. [LINK](https://arxiv.org/abs/2208.13264)

### Competency-Based and Quality-Aware Approach for Assessment of Students Performance using ML Classifiers
  The growing popularity of data mining catalyzes the researchers to explore various exciting aspects of education. Classification of student performance is an emerging area among them. The researchers have used various factors in performance modelling studies. Although prior cognition can affect student performance establishing their relationship is still an open research challenge. Quantifying the knowledge from readily available data is the major challenge here. We have proposed a semantic approach for this purpose. Student performance analysis is a critical research problem to understand the students’ needs present proper learning opportunities/resources and develop the teaching quality. In this paper we leverage supervised machine learning classification methods that performs better than Deep Learning methods like LSTM for this specific use case. We achieved 89% accuracy while using various ML methods for classification like SVM, Random Forest, Extra Trees Classifier, Gradient Boosting and Liner Discriminant Analysis. Extensive experiments demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed method in classifying student performance more accurately.
  * Published paper in the 'Journal of Emerging Technologies and Innovative Research (JETIR) 2023': [LINK](https://www.jetir.org/papers/JETIR2304825.pdf)

### Article on Boost Libraries — C++ Libraries for Intermediate Programmers
  Although Python has gained immense popularity among programmers, C++ is still widely used because of its speed and obviously the STL support. The aim of this article is to showcase some of the lesser-used Boost Library functions that have been hailed by famous C++ experts, Herb Sutter and Andrei Alexandrescu: [LINK](https://medium.com/@gopinathbalaji/boost-libraries-c-libraries-for-intermediate-programmers-7b20b6b6b575)
  
